Files needed to run velocyto which generates .loom files for scVelo (RNA Velocity):

- [ ] Cellranger bam file (`possorted_genome_bam.bam`) with intronic reads. To confirm bam has intronic reads, check the `Run Summary` section in `web_summary.html` generated by Cellranger for that sample. Find `Include introns` which would either be "true" or "false".
- [ ] Cellranger genome reference. This needs to be exactly the same as the one used during alignment, and `Run Summary` has the version under `Transcriptome`. Different versions can be downloaded via the official [website](https://www.10xgenomics.com/support/software/cell-ranger/downloads#reference-downloads).
<br>**NOTE: Velocyto requires the GTF file, and if the versions do not match velocyto will definitely fail.**</br>
- [ ] Cellranger `filtered_feature_bc_matrix/` directory present in the `outs/` or sample output directory. This part is hardcoded in velocyto, so it expects the same file structure.
- [ ] (Optional, but highly recommended) A mask GTF file which is a file that masks parts of the input ref GTF from regions that can potentially inflate counts in the unspliced regions. Examples are mitochondrial genes, rRNA, tRNA, sometimes pseudogenes, etc. They can add noise, and sometimes confuse velocity vectors, and scVelo recommends using a mask GTF to generate loom files.
<br>Mask GTF can also be downloaded from [UCSC](https://genome.ucsc.edu/cgi-bin/hgTables?hgsid=611454127_NtvlaW6xBSIRYJEBI0iRDEWisITa&clade=mammal&org=Human&db=hg38&hgta_group=rep&hgta_track=rmsk&hgta_table=0&hgta_regionType=genome&position=chr1%3A11102837-11267747&hgta_outputType=gff&hgta_outFileName=hg38_repeats_repeatMasker_allTracks.gtf)</br>

Once .loom files are generated:

